Write a blog on Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2
----------------------------------------------------

 The HTTP Protocol
   -----------
    HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol ,it is a application layer protocol which allows web based applications to communicate and exchange data.
    To simplify it is a messenger of the browser.Two computers one is client and other is server communicate and exchange data using HTTP protocol.
    For example 
    
                                                         2.request
                              ---------->        a request is sent to server     --------
                              |                                                          |
                              |                    Get index.html http/1.1               |
                      1.client                                                           3. server
                                                                                             index.html
                    user type in the URL                                                 |
                     www.index.html                                                      |
                              |                           request                        |  
                               <---------------------   html document      < -------------
        HTTPS intially desined to fetch html documents and deliver it to client.It being continuosly evolved over the years and many features being added with
        versions HTTP/0.9 to HTTP 3.It became convenient way to quickly and reliable move data on web. Intially HTTP only transmitted only plain text html files
        Later when need to exchange other than just text files emerged http/1.0 introduced .Later http/2.0 to communicate  much faster and relaible way.Lets see
        few differences between HTTP 1.1 and HTTP 2.0.
        
        HTTP 1.1 VS HTTP 2.0
         ------------------
         
             HTTP  Developed by Timothy Berners-Lee in 198  exchanges  information between a client computer and a local or remote web server. In this process  client sends a 
           text-based request to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. In response, the server sends a resource like an HTML page back to the client.For example,
           if you are visiting a website at the domain www.google.com. When you navigate to this URL, the web browser on your computer sends an HTTP request in the form of 
           a text-based message,       GET /index.html HTTP/1.1
                                         Host: www.google.com
                                                                                      
           This request uses the GET method, which asks for data from the host server listed after Host: In response to  request, the google.com web server returns an HTML page
         to the requesting client, in addition to any images, stylesheets, or other resources called for in the HTML. Not all of the resources are returned to the client in the
         first call for data. The requests and responses will go back and forth between the server and client until the web browser has received all the resources necessary to 
         display the contents of the HTML page on your screen.
         
         one request at time vs multiple files and requests at same time
          --------------------------------------------------------------
          
          Now  lets look into HTTP/1.1  features: HTTP1.1  only accepted one single request or connection at a time and ask for acknowledgment after each delivery.For example if 
        Alice wants to read a novel that her friend Bob wrote, but both Alice and Bob only communicate through the regular mail. Alice sends a letter to Bob and asks Bob to  
        send her his novel. Bob decides to send the novel HTTP/1.1-style: He mails one chapter at a time, and he only mails the next chapter after receiving a reply letter 
        from Alice confirming that she received the previous chapter. Using this method of content delivery, it takes Alice many weeks to read Bob's novel
           
         HTTP 2.0 resolves this problem through multiplexing this is allowing multiple files and requests to be transferred at the same time, Bob decides to send Alice his novel
       HTTP/2-style: In this case, he sends each chapter of the novel separately but all at the same time.He also numbers each chapter: Chapter 1, Chapter 2, etc. Now, Alice
       receives the novel all at once and can arrange it in the correct order on her own time. If a chapter is missing, she may send a quick reply asking for that specific 
       chapter, but otherwise the process is complete, and Alice can read the novel in just a few days.
       
       prioritization
       ---------------
                
         Another important feature of HTTP/2.0 is prioritization . prioritization refers to the order in which pieces of content are loaded.In HTTP/2, data is sent all at once,
       like Bob when he sends Alice multiple chapters at once. And jlike Bob, developers get to number the chapters in HTTP/2. They can decide if the text of a webpage loads 
       first, or the CSS files, or the JavaScript, or whatever they feel is most important for the user experience by prioritising by giving numbers.
       
       opening new connection every file vs using same connection for different file
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        
         HTTP/1.0 requires  opening a new connection for every file which needs to be transferred between a client and a server which require more time to load a web page 
       HTTP/2.0 resolves this problem by using the same connection for transferring different files and requests thus loading web page much faster.
                  
         server push
         -----------
              
           In HTTP/1.X a server only serves content to a client device if the client asks for it. It is not always practical for modern webpages, which often involve
         several dozen separate resources that the client must request. HTTP/2 solves this problem by allowing a server to "push" content to a client before the client 
         asks for it. The server also sends a message letting the client know what pushed content to expect – like if Bob had sent Alice a Table of Contents of his novel 
          before sending the whole thing.
          
         compressing larger files
          -----------------
         
             Typically, Small files load more quickly than large ones. To speed up web performance, both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 compress HTTP messages to make them smaller.
          However, HTTP/2 uses a more advanced compression method called HPACK that eliminates redundant information in HTTP header packets. 
          This eliminates a few bytes from every HTTP packet. Given the volume of HTTP packets involved in loading even a single webpage, those bytes add up quickly, 
          resulting in faster loading.
                   
            Transferring data in binary form instead of text
             ----------------------------------------------
                   
             HTTP/2 is binary instead of textual like HTTP1.x – this makes it transfer and parsing of data over HTTP/2  more faster, more efficient and less error prone
                   
                  
                  
